---
layout: post
title: 2018 Goals
description: My goals for the year 2018
subtitle:
published: true
comments: true
---

Last year (2017), I had set [three long term goals]({% post_url 2017-01-11-2017-goals %}). It focused entirely on computer science. It didn't entirely go well. Perhaps that could be attributed to the naiveness of the goals. This year, I will once again set three goals for the year. But, this time, I want to make sure that these are not focused only on computer science.
<!--excerpt_ends-->

## Goal 1

**Write at least one technical blog post each month**

Last year, I tried to commit code each day thinking that I will learn something in that process. But, it turned out that it actually stopped me from learning something. Hopefully, this task will achieve the same end goal. Why? This will force me to constantly work on something technical throughout the year. This could be anything from a cool math problem I solved or explaining a complex topic or a research project I am working on. This will also improve my scientific writing skills.

## Goal 2

**Read at least 20 books**

I love reading books. But lately I haven't been able to find the time to read all the books I want to. So, I put this goal out there to motivate me to read books. These could be anything from fiction to non-fiction, though I look at myself reading more of fantasy and science fiction more than anything else.

## Goal 3

**Co-author a technical research paper or journal article**

This is probably the most far-fetched goal I have ever set for myself. That is good. It constantly makes me improve and learn. I have started doing research (since the Fall of 2017), so hopefully this isn't really as far-fetched as I think it is. This will keep me on my toes.

<hr>

Those are the three goals I am setting for myself. At the end of this year, I will look back and evaluate how successful I was accomplishing them.

That's it for now. I wish you a happy new year!
